こんにちは！

Today, LAJ2203 "Japanese 4" officially kicks off with its first lecture. This
is the first Japanese lesson I have ever attended, so it made me very excited
and nervous at the same time In contrary to most students
who have reached this level of Japanese, my Japanese study until today was
entirely self-study, and this is the first time I have someone who I can call
"my Japanese teacher". With such a change in study methods, naturally, I
expected *a lot of* changes in my Japanese study in general. I was not
wrong -- in fact, the change was probably even more drastical than I imagined.

We spent the first half of the lecture on introductory matters, like the module
timetable, what the teaching team expected of students, etc., i.e. just the
very normal stuff that happens at the beginning of every module on earth. That
was no surprise to me; in fact, I already read the lecture slides beforehands,
so everything just looks very normal.

Except, it didn't look that normal. Or any normal at all.

I joined to my first Japanese lecture with an almost-fully Japanese speaking
community. While I *did* expect that some interactions between
Hamasaki-*sensei* and students will be in Japanese, how naive of me to
think the primary language of the module would still be English. The truth
quickly showed itself up: while everything on the screen was in English, at
least 90% of what coming to my ears was in Japanese.

I have always struggled with the listening component of any languages, including
my mother tongue. Yes, *including* Vietnamese. It's not that my ears are
bad -- I can still hear different sounds very well -- *or is it really bad?*
-- but it has always been the case that I can't listen well sometimes. I only
listen to the rhythm of Vietnamese songs, not their lyrics. I really can't
listen to Southern Vietnamese well, they just sound like gibberish to me. The
problem carries on to other languages as well: I really struggled with listening
in English, and while my friends scored as high as 8.5--9.0 in the IELTS
Listening test (which means they got at least 90% of the questions correct), I
only scored 7.0 last year (which corresponds to about 75%). The same happens in
Japanese: it usually took me two tries to complete a listening exercise in basic
Japanese workbooks.

Luckily, I watch anime, and it is one of the best Japanese listening practice
resources you can think of. I can feel my listening skills improving
significantly as I watch more anime. (Seeing cute girls having cute *seiyuu*
voices speaking cute stuffs definitely makes one's ears more healthy.) When I
registered for the Japanese placement test, I still watch it very regularly (I
can remember I was watching *Ao Haru Ride* at the time), so I could hear
the interviewers well (not well in anyone else's standard though haha). So if I keep on,
I will probably have no problems with attending LAJ2203.

That was the plan. The problem is, reality seldom follows one's plan well.

After the placement test interview, I was hit with the national exam, afterwards
with several other events, that made me so busy I hardly found time to watch
anime (or to study Japanese in general -- my Anki streak was lost during this
period). Now, when the first lesson came, my Japanese listening skill had
dropped to a level that I think even Japanese 3 was difficult. That's not an
exaggeration: now that the lecture has concluded, I don't think my ears managed
to understand more than 20% of what *sensei* and my classmates said.

This left me with a very strange problem. My vocabulary and grammar is very
fine. I am still studying an Anki dock that has had a lot of complicated kanji
and words, and I don't see any new kanji in several JLPT N3 sample papers. I
think I can read well too. But my listening (and consequently my speaking) skills
are just... ahh, oh no! So now, there is basically no normal Japanese courses
that can fit me. While I can well understand most kanji that Hamasaki-*sensei*
wrote in the slides or in the announcements (without the furigana that he also
added), I hardly understood a word that other participants of the Zoom call said.
If I take a course to improve my listening, my vocabulary and grammar will
suffer. (And if I take Japanese 2 or 3 for example, I even risk being kicked out
with a grade of W or F.) But if I take a course to improve my vocabulary and
grammar, like LAJ2203 which I'm taking right now, my listening will just continue
to be garbage.

Yeah, everyone. That is what happens when you self-study completely without
anyone directing you on the right path.

From now on, what to do? I don't know. At least tomorrow I will send
Hamasaki-*sensei* an email asking about this matter (which I will mention
here). And I will probably try to attend next week's lecture too, to see if
things will improve (of course with a lot of anime being watched beforehands).
I used my Linux system to watch the Zoom call today, and Linux is known to be
garbage in handling audio, so next week I will probably try using my Windows
system, hopefully it will improve something for me.

If things don't look better next week, I probably have to drop LAJ2203. I
probably have to drop the very first Japanese class of my life. Why? In week 3,
tutorials will start, and they are conducted entirely in Japanese. I would simply
become a disaster. And there is no good attending a module that you can't even
hear, right? But I won't give up now. I will reevaluate the situation next week.

Despite all this, calling today's lecture useless for me would not be correct at
all. I got to know about the imperative and prohibit forms. Actually, as I
watched anime, I already knew of this form's existence. Anime characters frequently
used this form to tell others to do or not to do something. It was just that I
knew the form the incorrect way. I thought, for example, 話せ was the short
version of 話して which is itself, with the meaning of asking someone to do
something, the short version of 話して下さい. Or I thought 食べろ was just a
"-ou form (e.g. 帰ろう or, ironically, 食べよう)" version for *ichidan* verbs
-- it should be 食べろう but since in casual conversations people prefer to shorten
and shorten all the time, so it became 食べろ. Now, having learned about the
imperative/prohibit forms, looking back at those thoughts makes me chuckle with
a slight embarassment.

Oh, and did I mention it? I learned こい is a form of the verb 来る, too! (Who
would have thought, despite me already watching tons of anime and hearing this
word spoken millions of times.)

On a different note, it turns out Waseda Shibuya High School -- the Japanese
high school in Singapore that we have a project with -- also have a school
festival (definitely right, there is no way a Japanese high school doesn't have
a school festival), called
<ruby>星<rp>（</rp><rt>せい</rt><rp>）</rp></ruby><ruby>蘭<rp>（</rp><rt>らん</rt><rp>）</rp></ruby>祭,
and held on 18
September. As an anime fan, it has always been my dream to attend a Japanese
high school festival. Unfortunately though, this year's festival has been moved
online due to the coronavirus. I don't know what to say anymore -- all kinds of
curse words are not enough to describe this virus by now. Let's just hope that
(if I survive LAJ2203 until that point) the festival will still be enjoyable,
and I can attend the school festival in person next year.

---

## Update on 13 August 2021

So I mailed Hamasaki-*sensei* yesterday about the problem. He replied to me that
technical issues are likely the main cause of the issue, and that most students
who come to LAJ modules with the Placement Test (i.e. not by passing the
previous modules) usually struggle during the start of the module, due to them
not yet being familiar with how the module is taught. He encouraged me to
continue.

I think I will continue then. I will use my Windows system (about which I hate
everything but the audio system) for next week's lecture. (And change to my
iPhone with headphones if I need to.)

I should already be serving SHN by that time, so I will be completely free to
watch any anime I want to (since I will probably have a lot of free time).
*Monogatari*, wait there, I'm coming! Hopefully that watch will be as enjoyable
as valuable for me to study Japanese.
