Remember the listening issue that I mentioned [last week](/week/1)? Well, it
turned out I was actually too pessimistic about my listening abilities.

Today I logged into my Zoom with little confidence. Considering the storm I faced
in last week's lecture, I think that is quite natural: not being able to
understand what everyone said is really frustrating, especially in a language
lesson. However, I thought, "Let's try this one more time and see." This time,
I decided to neglect my Linux system, which I love so much as a programming
companion but hate just as much for its audio quality, and tried out other
options.

It wasn't without obstacles. My Windows system, which I hate with passion for
everything but audio quality, freezed the moment I opened Zoom. Yeah, time to
buy a new laptop I guess, this old machine is not gonna make it pass the first
year at this rate.

I had to use my headphone connected to my iPhone. And, guess what? It worked
astonishingly well.

My speedrun of 8 episodes of *Monogatari* yesterday might have been a substantial
boost to my listening skill or not &ndash; I'm not sure about this one. But there
is one thing I'm sure about: everyone's speech was literally crystal clear, and
I could understand everything I heard. It suddenly went from super ultra advanced
N0 Japanese last week (well, to my ears' perspective) to a normal, intermediate
N3, N4-ish Japanese, which I didn't even need to *try*, to make effort,
in order to understand.

It felt really strange. For the first thirty minutes, I was questioning myself
whether *sensei* intentionally slowed down his speech just for me to understand.
But I could listen to my classmates (or *modulemates*?) as well; not only when
they answered particle-filling or word form questions, but also when they asked
*sensei* questions (which are not shown in the screen).

I guess it's settled then: I will be using my headphone with my iPhone from now
on for all lectures or tutorials of LAJ2203. I was advised not to use phones
due to its lack of features compared to the computer version of Zoom, but so far
I haven't found any problems that are note-worthy. In fact, it was actually very
convenient, since I could look at the lecture and have the slides or
[Jisho](https://jisho.org) displayed on my screen at the same time. For example,
today one of the students asked about
<ruby>昨<rp>（</rp><rt>さく</rt><rp>）</rp></ruby><ruby>晩<rp>（</rp><rt>ばん</rt><rp>）</rp></ruby>.
I had no idea that word existed (until now I only knew 夕べ and only frequently
used 昨日の晩). But the Jisho tab was still open, and there we go! Result appeared
in under two seconds. 便利だったな!

So, compared to last week's panic, I can today finally say that this module is
suitable for me, and I will gain a lot from it. I feel so excited looking towards
next week's tutorials and lecture!

*Sensei* mentioned that some people wrote something as long as an essay for the
Learning Journal, and he said it wasn't necessary. But right now, I'm still
writing an essay for the journal, haha! Last week was nearly 1500 words, and it
has been more than 500 words so far for this week. If Hamasaki-*sensei* is
reading this, please don't worry 😀! Other than documenting my journey with
LAJ2203, I also want this to be my writing practice for the English language,
and (I hope in a few weeks) my writing practice for the Japanese language too.
Since both are not my mother tongue, I want to get better at them at every
chance possible. So, I intend to continue to write this long for every week,
now and in the future.
